'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\" Copyright (c) 2015 Matthias Urlichs
'\" (matthias@urlichs.de)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on lots of hacking
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH MoaT 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B MoaT
\- interface to versatile 1wire slave code for AVR ATtiny and ATmega processors
.SH SYNOPSIS
Ports, A/D converters, counters, and more
.PP
.B F0
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B port.[1-x]
|
.B adc.[1-x]
|
.B pwm.[1-x]
|
.B raw/*
|
.B config/[name|types]
|
.B console
|
.B alarm/[sources|TYPE]
.so man3/standard_mini.3so
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.PP
.I F0
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS port.1 ... port.N
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
One of the slave's I/O pins. The effect of writing to the pin depends on
its configuration; by default, writing to an input pin switches the pull-up
resistor on or off.
.SS pwm
.I read-write, unsigned integers
.br
Pulse-width-modulate an output (i.e., turn it on and off periodically). The
resolution is 1/10th of a second. Two integers: on- and off-time.
.br
A time of zero halts the modulator so that a one-shot pulse is possible.
.SS count
.I read-only, integer
.br
Counts an I/O pin's transitions. Both on>off and off>on are counted.
.SS adc.1 ... adc.N
.I read/write, integers
.br
Analog-to-digital converters.
.br
Which pin a converter interfaces with is configured in source code. 
.br
Converters are also available for the internal thermometer and reference
bandgap reference, which can be used as a crude way to measure the device's
input voltage.
.br
Output is a 16-bit unsigned integer as a fraction of the reference voltage,
followed by the lower and upper bounds for the alarm state. The values
.I 65535
and
.I 0
turn off the lower and upper boundary, respectively. If the A/D value is
exactly the same as the boundary, the alarm will trigger.
.SS console
.I read-write, ASCII
.br
Textual data from the slave, e.g. debug information.
.SS raw/*
.I read-write, binary
These files afford a binary channel to the slave device. The (rest of the)
OWFS MoaT code acts as a convenient front-end to these files.
.br Please consult the MoaT slave sources for details.
.SS config/name
.I read-only, ASCII
.br
The device's name, as configured in the slave's configuration file.
.SS config/types
.T read-only, ASCII
.br
This multi-line file lists which endpoints are available, and their number.
.br
It consists of lines like
.br
.I adc=2
.br
which tells us that this device has two A/D converters at
.I adc.1
and
.I adc.2
overstepped their boundaries.
.SS alarm/sources
.I read-only, ASCII
.br
A comma-separated list of endpoint types which currently
exhibit an alarm condition.
.br
If this list is non-empty, the slave will show up below the top-level
.I /alarm
directory (and vice versa).
.SS alarm/[type]
.I read-only, unsigned integers
.br
A comma-separated list of device numbers which triggered this type's alarm.
.br
For instance, if
.I alarm/pwm
contains
.I 1,3
then the one-shot PWMs 1 and 3 have stopped.
.br
Alarms are cleared when reading the corresponding property. A cleared
condition, like the output of an A/D converter returning to acceptable
values, will
.I not
clear the alarm condition.
.br
As a special case, the values in
.I alarm/adc
are prefixed by '+' or '-' depending on whether the upper or lower boundary
value was reached. Note that reading adc.N will not clear the alarm if the
value is still out of bounds. Writing new boundaries does not clear an
alarm either.
.br
Visibility of these files is triggered by reading
.I alarm/sources
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.so man3/standard.3so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.so man3/description.3so
.SS MoaT
The
.B MoaT (3)
class of devices consists of highly configurable 1wire slave code for ATmega processors.
.PP
You can tell it to assign any available input or output to a port, count
transitions, emit low-frequency PWM, measure input voltages, and some other
features, not all of which are implemented yet.
.SH ADDRESSING
.so man3/addressing.3so
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://www.atmel.com/Images/doc2545.pdf
.br
http://github.com/M-o-a-T/owslave.git
.SH SEE ALSO
.so man3/seealso.3so
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://www.owfs.org
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
.br
Matthias Urlichs (matthias@urlichs.de)
